What are your convenient times?
Our text for today discusses one of the temptations that Satan presented to Jesus.
At Luke 4 and verse 13, later says, that then Satan goes away to return at another convenient
time to tempt Jesus.
So with all that in mind, we're going to consider three questions today.
At number one, what were these three temptations really about?
At number two, did Satan ever find a convenient time to come back and tempt Jesus?
And three, does Satan try to use these temptations today?
We're going to look at Matthew's account of these three temptations and try to answer
those questions.
So let's start first with Matthew chapter 4 and verse 2 and 3.
It says, after he had fasted for 40 days and 40 nights, he felt hungry.
In the temptor approach, and said to him, if you are a son of God, tell these stones
to become lows of bread.
Our first question, what was it the root of this temptation?
Well, Satan knew full well that Jesus was Jehovah's firstborn son, but he was trying
to get Jesus to question that he was who Jehovah said he was.
If you are a son of God, why hasn't your father fed you?
Can you really trust Jehovah to take care of you?
See, Satan wanted Jesus to begin to question Jehovah's care and use his position to benefit
himself.
Well, Jesus recognized that this was a temptation and he did not fall for it.
But question two, did Satan ever come back and try this trick again with Jesus?
Well, when Jesus was arrested, could that have been a convenient time?
Remember Jesus said that he could have called on 12 legions of angels to come and save
him?
Could that have been a temptation to save himself?
Or remember when he was on the stake, the rulers and the soldiers at haunted him and
said, if you are a son of God, come on down off the stake.
Interesting that they used the same terminology.
Could that have been a temptation?
No, Jesus trusted that Jehovah would take care of him.
Our third question is, does Satan use that temptation today?
Well, we are living in unsettled times.
Are these convenient times for Satan?
Are families, are friends, maybe in need?
Could we be tempted to question if we really trust that Jehovah is going to take care
of them?
Do we, could we be convinced or convince ourselves that we may need to take matters into
our own hands?
Or are we ever tempted to use our privileges of service to benefit ourselves?
So could the second temptation, Matthew 4, verses 5 and 6?
Says then the devil took him along into the holy city and stationed him on the battlemen
of the temple and said to him, if you are a son of God, throw yourself down for it is
written, he will give his angels a command concerning you and they will carry you on
their hands so that you may not strike your foot against a stone.
Again, what was the root here?
Well, Satan was again trying to cast doubt on who Jesus was.
If you are who you say you are, prove it.
Let's say if Jehovah really is there for you, he does value you, he'll save you because
Psalm says that's what he'll do for the real son of God.
Well Jesus saw that this was a temptation and did not fall for it.
Now did Satan ever try such a temptation again?
Well perhaps another time is what's recorded in Mark 8, verse 11, where the Pharisees
came.
The account says they started disputing with him, demanding from him a sign from heaven
to put him to the test.
Now Jesus had just healed a deaf and speechless man and miraculously fed over 4,000 people,
but that wasn't enough for them.
They wanted something spectacular, like throw yourself off the temple or something.
Approve you are who you say you are.
Let's see if Jehovah really values you.
Now when might we face a similar temptation?
Well some of our brothers and sisters may feel unlovable due to events in their life.
Times of isolation, depression may be convenient times for those times for Satan to attack
them.
Am I sure Jehovah really loves me?
Am I sure I'm important to Jehovah?
Do I have value?
Well such feelings have caused ones to stop serving Jehovah or to seek validation of their
value through unscriptural means.
Look at our third temptation, Matthew 4, verses 8 and 9.
Again the devil took him along to an unusually high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms
of the world in their glory.
And he said to him, all these things I will give you if you fall down into an act of worship
to me.
So what was Satan offering here?
Don't wait.
You can have it now.
You know it's coming.
The pain that's coming.
My offer is better than Jehovah's.
Again, Jesus recognized what Satan was doing and he resisted that temptation.
Did Satan ever find a convenient time to try that again?
Well perhaps the account in Luke 6 and verse 15 explains what may have been another
convenient time.
Remember the people that wanted Jesus to begin ruling right then?
Could that have been a temptation to get his kingdom started without the pain of being
tortured to death?
Well, knowing that the people were coming for him, Jesus with a drill.
Do we face similar temptations today?
Well, we willingly make sacrifices and have made sacrifices to serve Jehovah.
But we may see what others do and what others have and wonder, are our sacrifices really
worth it?
Is there any way I can have it now?
Maybe if there's a way I can make some more money, I could do both and have the things
I want.
But you see three powerful temptations.
Can you trust that your father will take care of you?
Are you sure Jehovah loves you and you have value?
Why wait when you can have it now?
So again, the question, what are your convenient times?
What am I?
Convenient times.
Satan is going to find convenient times to tempt us.
That's a given.
A second Peter chapter, excuse me, first Peter chapter 2 and verse 8 says he's out there
like a roaring lion seeking to devour us.
If he found convenient times to tempt Jesus, we can be sure that he will do the same for
us.
What do we need to do?
Our job is to resist his temptations.
How do we do that?
The same way that Jesus did.
Did you know the two things he did?
And number one, Jesus recognized when he was being tempted.
And two, at that moment, he focused on Jehovah.
It's interesting and everyone in his responses to Satan, he used Jehovah's name.
See, Jehovah's name is a powerful protection against Satan's attacks.
That's why Jesus listed praying to Jehovah to resist temptation, resist the wicked one
as a fundamental part when he was teaching his disciples how to pray.
That's why Jesus said that he made Jehovah's name known to his followers.
That's why Proverbs 1810 tells us that Jehovah's name is a strong tower that we can run to
for protection.
See, speaking with Jehovah, using his name, meditating on his name and everything that
it means can help us when we are being tempted by Satan when he finds convenient times to
attack us.
And if we do that, what will be the result?
We'll notice the guarantee that we have in Psalm 44 and verse 5.
Psalm 44, verse 5, it says, by your power, we will drive back our adversaries.
In your name, we will trample down those who rise up against us.
Yes, all of us are going to find times that Satan finds convenient to tempt us.
When that happens, may we be sensitive to recognize that it is a temptation.
And then look to Jehovah and focus on his name and if we do, we can have the confidence.
But as this Psalm says, this will help, Jehovah's name will help us to drive back and trample
those who rise against us individually and as an organization.